Update k8s docs for Vault as a Secrets Backend (#12691)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/k8s/installation/vault/systems-integration.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Vault as Secrets Backend Systems Integration Overview
description: >-
  Overview of the systems integration aspects to using Vault as secrets backend for Consul on Kubernetes.
---

# Vault as the secrets backend - Systems Integration

## Overview
At a high level, configuring a systems integration of Vault with Consul on Kubernetes consists of the following steps:

> - One time set up on Vault

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## One time set up on Vault
```

  - Enabling Vault KV Secrets Engine - Version 2 to store arbitrary secrets
  - Enabling Vault PKI Engine if you are choosing to store and manage either [Consul Server TLS credentials](/docs/k8s/installation/vault/data-integration/server-tls) or [Service Mesh and Consul client TLS credentials](/docs/k8s/installation/vault/data-integration/connect-ca)

> - Set up per Consul datacenter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set up per Consul datacenter
```

  - Installing the Vault Injector within the Consul data center installation
  - Configuring a Kubernetes Auth Method in Vault to authenticate and authorize operations from the Consul data center
  - Enable Vault as the secrets backend in the Consul data center

## One time set up on Vault
### Vault KV Secrets Engine - Version 2
The following secrets can be stored in Vault KV secrets engine, which is meant to handle arbitrary secrets:
- ACL Bootstrap token ([`global.acls.bootstrapToken`](/docs/k8s/helm#v-global-acls-bootstraptoken))
- Gossip encryption key ([`global.gossipEncryption`]())

> - Enterprise license ([`global.enterpriseLicense]())

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Enterprise license ([`global.enterpriseLicense`]())
```

- ACL Replication token ([`global.acls.replicationToken`](/docs/k8s/helm#v-global-acls-replicationtoken))
- Snapshot Agent config ([`client.snapshotAgent.configSecret`](/docs/k8s/helm#v-client-snapshotagent-configsecret))

In order to store any of these secrets, we must enable the [Vault KV secrets engine - Version 2](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/secrets/kv/kv-v2).

```shell-session
$ vault secrets enable -path=consul kv-v2
```

### Vault PKI Engine

The Vault PKI Engine must be enabled in order to leverage Vault for issuing Consul Server TLS certificates. More details for configuring the PKI Engine is found in [Bootstrapping the PKI Engine](/docs/k8s/installation/vault/data-integration/server-tls#bootstrapping-the-pki-engine) under the Server TLS section.

```shell-session
$ vault secrets enable pki
```

> ## Set up per Consul data center

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set up per Consul Datacenter
```

Datacenter is a proper noun for Consul representing a cluster deployed within a region.

      - On GKE or AKS, it'll be an IP:
        ```shell
        $ export VAULT_SERVER_HOST=$(kubectl get svc vault-dc1 -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
        ```
      - On EKS, it'll be a hostname:
        ```shell
        $ export VAULT_SERVER_HOST=$(kubectl get svc vault-dc1 -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].hostname}')
        ```
    - If Vault is not running on Kubernetes, <TO DO: HOW DO WE DESCRIBE HOW TO GET THIS?>
        ```shell
        $ export VAULT_SERVER_HOST=<external IP for vault cluster>
        ```
#### VAULT_ADDR
  - **Recommended value:** Connecting to Port 8200 of 
    ```shell
    $ export VAULT_ADDR=http://${VAULT_SERVER_HOST}:8200
    ```

### Install Vault Injector in your Consul k8s cluster
A minimal valid installation of Vault Kubernetes must include the Agent Injector which is utilized for accessing secrets from Vault. Vault servers could be deployed external to Vault on Kubernetes as described via the `externalvaultaddr` value in the Vault Helm Configuration.

```shell
$ cat <<EOF >> vault-injector.yaml
# vault-injector.yaml
server:
  enabled: false
injector:
  enabled: true

>   externalVaultAddr: $VAULT_ADDR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  externalVaultAddr: ${VAULT_ADDR}
```

First, while targeting your Consul cluster, get the externally reachable address of the Consul Kubernetes cluster.

```
$ export KUBE_API_URL=$(kubectl config view -o jsonpath="{.clusters[?(@.name == \"$(kubectl config current-context)\")].cluster.server}")
```

Next, you will configure the Vault Kubernetes Auth Method for the datacenter.  You will need to provide it with:
- token_reviewer_jwt - this a JWT token from the Consul datacenter cluster that the Vault Kubernetes Auth Method will use to query the Consul datacenter Kubernetes API when services in the Consul datacenter request data from Vault.
- kubernetes_host - this is the URL of the Consul datacenter's Kubernetes API that Vault will query to authenticate the service account of an incoming request from a Consul data ceneter kubernetes service.
- kubernetes_ca_cert - this is the CA certifcation that is currently being used by the Consul datacenter Kubernetes cluster.

```shell-session
$ vault write auth/kubernetes/config \
    token_reviewer_jwt="$(cat /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token)" \

>     kubernetes_host="https://$KUBE_API_URL:443" \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    kubernetes_host="${https://$KUBE_API_URL}:443" \
```

    kubernetes_ca_cert=@/var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/ca.crt
```

#### Enable Vault as the secrets backend in the Consul data center
Finally, you will configure the Consul on Kubernetes helm chart for the data center to expect to receive the following values (if you have configured them) to be retreived from Vault:
- ACL Bootstrap token ([`global.acls.bootstrapToken`](/docs/k8s/helm#v-global-acls-bootstraptoken))
- Gossip encryption key ([`global.gossipEncryption`]())

> - Enterprise license ([`global.enterpriseLicense]())

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Enterprise license ([`global.enterpriseLicense`]())
```

  
### Set up per Consul datacenter
  - Installing the Vault Injector within the Consul datacenter installation
  - Configuring a Kubernetes Auth Method in Vault to authenticate and authorize operations from the Consul datacenter
  - Enable Vault as the secrets backend in the Consul datacenter

## One time set up on Vault

A one time setup on a Vault deployment is necessary to enable both the Vault KV Secrets Engine and the Vault PKI Engine. These docs assume that you have already setup a Vault cluster for use with Consul on Kubernetes. 

Please read [Run Vault on Kubernetes](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/platform/k8s/helm/run) if instructions on setting up a Vault cluster are needed. 

### Vault KV Secrets Engine - Version 2

The following secrets can be stored in Vault KV secrets engine, which is meant to handle arbitrary secrets:
- ACL Bootstrap token ([`global.acls.bootstrapToken`](/docs/k8s/helm#v-global-acls-bootstraptoken))
- Gossip encryption key ([`global.gossipEncryption`]())
- Enterprise license ([`global.enterpriseLicense`]())

> - ACL Replication token ([`global.acls.replicationToken`](/docs/k8s/helm#v-global-acls-replicationtoken))

Author: I just created this page and set up all of the appropriate links in the various pages and nav.

    ```
    
#### VAULT_SERVER_HOST

  - **Recommended value:** find the external IP address of your Vault cluster. 
    - If Vault is install in a Kubernetes cluster, get the external IP or DNS name of the Vault server load balancer. 
      - On GKE or AKS, it'll be an IP:
        ```shell-session
        $ export VAULT_SERVER_HOST=$(kubectl get svc vault-dc1 -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
        ```
      - On EKS, it'll be a hostname:
        ```shell-session
        $ export VAULT_SERVER_HOST=$(kubectl get svc vault-dc1 -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].hostname}')
        ```
    - If Vault is not running on Kubernetes, utilize the `api_addr` as defined in the Vault [High Availability Paremeters](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/configuration#high-availability-parameters) configuration:
        ```shell-session
        $ export VAULT_SERVER_HOST=<external IP for vault cluster>
        ```
        
#### VAULT_ADDR

  - **Recommended value:** Connecting to Port 8200 of 
    ```shell-session
    $ export VAULT_ADDR=http://${VAULT_SERVER_HOST}:8200
    ```

### Install Vault Injector in your Consul k8s cluster

> A minimal valid installation of Vault Kubernetes must include the Agent Injector which is utilized for accessing secrets from Vault. Vault servers could be deployed external to Vault on Kubernetes as described via the `externalvaultaddr` value in the Vault Helm Configuration.

Author: No. This is in the existing docs here: https://www.consul.io/docs/k8s/installation/vault#vault-helm-config

Should we keep this?

> A minimal valid installation of Vault Kubernetes must include the Agent Injector which is utilized for accessing secrets from Vault. Vault servers could be deployed external to Vault on Kubernetes as described via the `externalvaultaddr` value in the Vault Helm Configuration.

Reviewer 2: I think it's ok to keep it, although maybe we can fix the helm value:
```suggestion
A minimal valid installation of Vault Kubernetes must include the Agent Injector which is utilized for accessing secrets from Vault. Vault servers could be deployed external to Vault on Kubernetes with the [`injector.externalVaultAddr`](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/platform/k8s/helm/configuration#externalvaultaddr) value in the Vault Helm Configuration.
```
